# EduLinq Python Utilities

Common utilities used by EduLinq Python projects.

## Installation / Requirements

This project requires [Python](https://www.python.org/) >= 3.8.

The project can be installed from PyPi with:
```
pip3 install edq-utils
```

Standard Python requirements are listed in `pyproject.toml`.
The project and Python dependencies can be installed from source with:
```
pip3 install .
```

## Configuration System

This project provides a configuration system that supplies configuration options to a command-line interface (CLI) tool.

### Configuration Sources

The configuration system reads options from multiple JSON files located in different directories.
These configuration files are not generated by default.
They are located through the configuration system’s search process.
By default the configuration system searches for files named `edq-config.json`, this is customizable.

For example, a configuration file containing the `user` and `token` options might look like this:
```
{
    "user": "edq-user",
    "token": "1234567890"
}
```

The table below shows the order in which sources are applied, from top to bottom.
If the same configuration option is set in more than one place, the value from the later source overrides the earlier ones.

| Sources | Description |
| :------:| :---------- |
| Global | Global configuration file defaults to a platform-specific user location and can be changed with the `--global-config` option.|
| Local | Local configuration is loaded from the first matching file found, starting in the current directory and moving up to ancestor directories.|
| CLI | Files passed with `--config-file` are loaded in order, with later files overriding earlier ones.|
| CLI Bear | Command-line options override all other configuration sources.|

The system produces an error if a global or local configuration file is unreadable (but not missing), or if a CLI-specified file is unreadable or missing.

#### Global Configuration

The global configuration file defaults to `<platform-specific user configuration location>/edq-config.json`.
According to [platformdirs](https://github.com/tox-dev/platformdirs), this location serves as the proper place to store user-related configuration.
You can change the global configuration location by passing a path to `--global-config` to the command line.
This type of configuration is best suited for login credentials or persistent user preferences.
Run any CLI command with `--help` to see the exact path for the current platform under the flag `--global-config`.

Here is an example of specifying a global config path:
```
cli-tool <command> --global-config /path/to/file/<file-name>.json
```

#### Local Configuration

Local configuration files are searched for in multiple locations.
The first file found will be used, and other locations will not be searched.
Local config search order:
1. `edq-config.json` in the current directory.
2. A legacy file in the current directory (only if a specified legacy file is passed to the configuration system).
3. `edq-config.json` in any ancestor directory on the path to root (or up to a cutoff limit, if specified to the configuration system).

#### CLI-Specified Config Files

Any files passed via `--config-file` will be loaded in the order they appear on the command line.
Later files will override options from previous ones.

Here is an example of specifying a CLI-specified configuration path:
```
cli-tool <command> --config-file /path/to/file/<file-name>.json
```

#### Bare CLI Options

Options passed directly on the command line (e.g., `--user`, `--token`, `--server`).
These always override every other configuration source.
The configuration system can be set to ignore specific CLI options when applying overrides, if needed.

Here is an example of specifying a config option directly from the CLI:
```
cli-tool <command> --user=edq-user
```